so look at the before and after this is
after the extent of the damage at alifa
right now the courtyard has been
bulldozed buildings are burned in Ruins
this is what's left of it right now and
this here is what it looked like before
gaza's largest medical complex this was
back in October in the first few days of
the war it was the strip's most advanced
hospital with specialized facilities for
Pediatrics Opthalmology obstetrics
Gynecology Etc
let's talk about this with Dr mattz
Gilbert senior consultant professor of
emergency medicine at the University uh
University Hospital of North Norway you
have worked at hospitals in Gaza you're
still in touch with teams on the ground
you're joining us from truma Norway I
wanted to find out first sir what
information you're getting from the
people you know who are in or around
alshifa well good morning we first got
this very uh alarming uh report from Dr
Marana busada two days ago about 107
critical patients who had been moved to
an old part of the shifa medical complex
without water without any medical
supplies not even having glows very
alarming and then we get this news this
morning that the Israeli occupation
forces actually have completely
destroyed the shifa medical complex we
do not know as of yet the destiny of the
107 critical patients that were mov
moved the two days ago and their staff
but what we do know is that Israeli
government and Israeli occupation forces
this night has ended 78 years of Brave
medical history because shifa hospital
and shifa means the healing house the
house of healing was established in
1946 and was the most important Flagship
hospital for the health care for the
people of Gaza my first encounter and
work in shifa was in
1989 and I've been working through all
these years with the brave staff and the
excellent medical people in Gaza this is
such a sad day I'm I I've been weeping
all morning
actually so you said we don't know
what's become of the 107 patients who
were in in critical care is that
right well we don't know yet what has
come of these 107 patient and I quote
from the report from Dr Maran abusada a
senior surgeon in in shifa he says that
most of them are severe cases that had
been in the ICU and 60 of the medical
staff have been incarcerated in an old
building in the hospital that does not
have capacity to host such number of
patients and has no equipment unquote so
nobody knows the fate of these patients
but what we see from the video footage
this morning we see a massive amount of
people searching for corpses for dead
one for Martyrs and they find and they
find the most horrible uh decomposed
corpses with the maggots coming out of
the The Ice and and and and and truly a
scene from dant Inferno so uh to me I
was last time in Gaza in shifa last
summer hold on can I can I jump in there
I want to ask you a question uh I want
to compare what the Israeli military are
saying to what you know actually
happened in alifa the Israeli military
say that during their operation which
they say was against uh Hamas and
Islamic Jihad armed Fighters they say
that they gradually isolated the
patients moved them out of the fighting
Zone per se moved them to another
building and even provided um uh water
food and some level of medical
assistance I'm assuming medicines but I
don't actually know uh is that
consistent with what you're hearing
actually happened
absolutely not and the Israelis are
known for being the most Ardent Liars
they lie about everything so from this
report that I'm reading from the medical
doctor says that there is absolutely
nothing they don't even have glows they
use plastic bags to tend to the infected
wounds and they don't have the needed
equipment nor antibiotics nor nothing
and it's also a very dramatic uh uh
report on The Negotiator from the
medical team in shifa talking to the
Israeli Commander he has to address to
his underwear he kept waiting for two
hours and the commander comes back with
absolutely no answer so this is a a
combination of ress and humiliation that
you simply don't do to other people and
you don't do it to sick and wounded
People For Heaven's Sake when is this
going to stop and now we hear from Gaza
that they are taking on Alexa hospital
and probably are planning to do the same
with Alexa as they've done know with
shifa so I'm just asking where is this
world where where is the world order and
the maggots that are creeping out of the
corpses in shifa hospital now are really
maggots coming out of the eyes of
President Biden and the EU leaders doing
nothing to stop this horrible horrible
genocide mads we're looking at the
pictures the very latest pictures of the
aftermath right of this two weeks Siege
uh on alifa the buildings are completely
burnt out hollowed out out um I see a
bridge connecting buildings there that's
destroyed to me when I look at this and
I'm of course no expert on this it looks
to me like this can never be rebuilt
this was gaza's largest hospital can do
you think in the future this can be used
again or or is alifa gone for
good well I think you're right I've seen
the same videos and I recognized the the
skeletons of the buildings and
particularly the brand new uh medical
surgical complex to the north of the
complex
which was equipped at top level and and
financed funded by by European countries
where are they today I do not think this
can be rebuilt it will be rebuilt
because we will rebuild GSA and gsa's
Healthcare and I think one thing which
is you know greatly overlooked by the
media is that Israel is never held
accountable and never has to pay War
compensation this endless this
absolutely endless impunity for Israel
through 75 years has made them ravage
and Destroy as much as they like without
ever being held accountable and in
particular not financially uh
accountable actually the state of Israel
should be sentenced to rebuild shifa
hospital and pay the full bill for their
destructions um so on one side if I can
jump in just to just to provide some
context to viewers because um Benjamin
Netanyahu the Israeli Prime Minister did
present a plan that was widely panned I
have to say a plan for post Gaza part of
his plan was to have rebuilding paid for
by U the International Community and
specifically Arab countries he was
rebuffed um but he in his vision of it
um he would have Gulf countries and Arab
countries generally pay for this
rebuilding I just wanted to complete
your point
there yeah thank you and and it's it's
showing the the the cism of the Israeli
government I mean this is this is a
total Destruction of Civil Society in
Gaza this is the politics of elimination
well known from Colonial politics all
over the world you kill the indigenous
people you destroy their social Fabric
and their society and you take over the
land you grab the land so this is a
politics well known and it's called
actually the politics of elimination and
and and this destruction of shifa today
is the lowest point to till now when it
comes to the Israeli occupation armies
destruction of hospitals schools
universities archaeological sites
archives museums everything and that is
part of the yeah yeah man can I once
again get you to um can I confront what
the the Israeli version of events at
alifa with what you know to have
happened with your contacts on the
ground the Israeli military said that
they saw a large cluster of armed
fighters from Hamas and the Islamic
Jihad and that they were fighting them
um and they were trying to sort out
patience this has been a big part of the
Israeli narrative on the alifa medical
complex they were trying to sort out
patients from the fighters and Target
only the fighters um what do you know
about who was in the hospital and and
about that
fighting what I know from the reports is
that there has been fighting around
shifa hospital and and consider uh for a
moment yourself if your National most
important Flagship hospital was attacked
by an invading Army who really had the
intention of destroying the hospital and
killing the people wouldn't you defend
it in the vincinity of the hospital
wouldn't you think that your army should
defend your most important security
hospital for the people of course they
have tried to defend it but I have not
heard any report of Fighters inside
shifa hospital and don't forget this is
the second Siege of shifa when they
invaded Shi for the first time they had
no proof of any military installations
they didn't find anything they repeat
their lies because they didn't need
these lies to to attack all the other
hospitals in Gaza you know out of the 35
hospitals almost every one of them have
been attacked even without the excuse of
being a military command center so this
is this is a lie and this is beyond the
point because what they are doing is
destroying Palestinian infrastructure
their life and their society don't
forget that shifa had 700 beds and they
host during the the peak of The Siege
they hosted 7,000 patients the staff
there they really deserve the Nobel
Peace Prize for their heroic work to
defend the the patients and contrast
this with the lies of the Israeli army
they have shown no proof of this massive
uh uh military installation it's
actually a blackened lie and um they
have shown um just as little evidence
when they have been bombing universities
schools and the other hospitals so I
think it's important now to um to
understand that these Israeli narratives
Shall Serve the purpose of defending
their case in the icj uh investigation
because they want to show that oh we
warned oh we put out some leaflets oh we
said they should flee there is no safe
place in Gaza there is no water there is
no food this is an allout war against a
people trying to survive and they take
the hospital I have another question
question for you on on the medical staff
and the latest that you know about the
the whereabouts and the and the
well-being that's not the right word but
how the medical staff at ala are doing
just before I get to that another word
of context on what you were saying the
Israeli providing proof um the Israelis
in their first uh assault on alifer raid
on Al shifer several months ago had said
this is the Hamas command and Control
Center and to your point the world never
got proof of that yes there were some
tunnels running through that area as
under many areas of Gaza but a command
and control center the Israeli uh
military did not demonstrate that that
existed under al-shifa today their
argument for why they laid Siege to Al
shifa and and laid waste to this entire
medical complex was that hundreds of
armed Fighters were fighting there again
if the proof is there um you know I
think the world would like to see it uh
so to my question medical staff what do
you know about the doctors nurses and
other Medical Teams who were operating
in alifa and helping these 100 plus
patients let me first just comment to
your your your reasoning and I I totally
agree but if the goal was to to to fight
down some hundred uh resistance Fighters
Palestinians why why burn the hospital
why burn this billion value uh
incredibly important Institution for the
for the civilian population in Gaza well
this has been their in Northern Gaza
since the beginning which was in in
large part level the northern part of
the
strip so it has nothing to do it has
nothing to do with any military
reasoning that we are going to fight
down some some fighters who are around
shifa it's a blatant lie they're doing
it to destroy Palestine that's the point
and what about the staff inside well in
this report from Dr Maran uh he says
that
um um the
um staff are left in horrific conditions
already exhausted and starting showing
symptoms of fatigue and Allergy and if
no solution is pursued as soon as
possible the place will turn into a
graveyard of patients and staff if it's
not already the case unquote so so
that's the that's the sad news uh we
have heard nothing from the staff and
the 107 patients and I don't think the
Israelis care I've been they've been
killing 34 40,000 people now they keep
on killing and when when is this going
to stop are they going to bomb ala
Hospital also are they going to destroy
100% of the Palestinian health and and
who's next if Israel is not stopped what
will happen to the Healthcare in the
West Bank what will happen to the
hospital in tar and Janine AA Victoria
and Massad hospital because Israel is on
a rampage to reoccupy and take this land
forever okay and that's the colonial
fascist politics um Matt's Gilbert
speaking to us from Norway thank you
thank you for sharing that information
that you had with us uh we will follow
up on the fate of these 107 patients who
were in critical care as well as the
medical teams that we're caring for them
uh we'll be speaking to our
correspondent reaching out to anyone we
can to try and find out now that the
siege is over what exactly is left in
the building who's left in the facility
mattz Gilbert thank you very
much thank you